Hello everyone, and welcome to
an Introduction to SQL with Python.
In this appendix,
we're just gonna be going over how
to use SQL in Python with Pandas.
So, this is just a first IPython notebook.
If you want to get to the viewer
of this IPython notebook,
just go to nbviewer.IPython.org.
Look up jmportilla, and
if you click Go here,
you can click then SQL, or SQL-Appendix.
It will take you to
the current notebooks to see.
And then right now,
we're on Introduction to SQL with Python.
So, in this notebook and video,
I'll just be showing you what you're
gonna need to download and
how to use what we download.
So, just a quick disclaimer, there's
lots of ways to browse through a SQL,
or SQL database.
Throughout this appendix, we're only
gonna be focusing on learning about SQL
queries using a combination of
Python Pandas, and SQLite and SQL Alchemy.
So, this is kind of a specific way to
operate for SQL database and it may or
may not fit your other general needs.
So, just keep that in mind.
And, to fully understand
the content of this appendix,
I suggest you complete the course
up to at least Lecture 28.
Although, I really recommend completing
up to Lecture 46 to get the most out of
this appendix.
So, beginning of what you're
gonna need to download,
you're gonna need to download SQL Alchemy.
So, you can either click the link and
it'll take you to this page,
SQL Alchemy and
you can click the download links here,
or you can use your command line.
So, if you use your Anaconda command line,
you can just type conda install sqlalchemy
right here, conda install sqlalchemy.
If you're using a different
distribution of Python,
you can also install it using pip install
sqlalchemy in your command line as well.
After that, you're gonna want
to install the SQLite Browser.
So, I also included a link
of 10 other free browsers.
I'm going to be using SQLite Browser just
because it's light weight and free to use.
So, you can download SQLite Browser
at this link right here.
Should take you here.
It's the database browser for SQLite.
It's free.
It's open source.
So, you can check it out.
Once you've downloaded it, go ahead and
then download the sakila Database.
So, this is just a sample
database we're gonna be
messing around with and learning with.
You can download the fully constructed
database here at this link.
That link will take you
to this Dropbox page.
You can just download.
The file's about 5.67 megabytes.
Once you've done that,
there's other ways to get the database.
You can construct the .sql file
yourself by clicking on this link.
If you don't know what that means,
don't worry about it.
You can just download the fully
constructed database off that Dropbox
link.
Either way, once you have it,
save it to the same directory
as your IPython notebooks.
Or remember the complete file path for
later.
So, we can tell panda
exactly where to look for it.
Great.
So, once you've done those three steps,
you should have everything you need before
diving into working with Python and SQL.
So, there's different ways to check out
the database we're going
to be working with.
You can open it up using SQLite Browser.
So, if I open up
SQLite Browser right now for
you guys, it'll look something like this.
And I can open the database, and
right now, I have it under sakila or
sakila, however you want to say it.
And this is what the database looks
like using the SQLite Browser.
So, if you browse the data,
you can just basically have
a really nice GUI here or GUI.
We're looking at the columns and
what the data looks like.
You can think of this database as just
a bunch of linked spreadsheet tables.
So, in this specific database,
it's basically a rental video database.
It's a really common tutorial database for
learning MySQL.
So, we'll be using it to learn how
to use SQL with pandas and Python.
So, you can see here a list of films,
their titles, their descriptions,
their release years,
etc etc, their ratings.
And you can go ahead and
browse the database visually using that.
So, I'll go ahead and close that now.
There's also a nice diagram online
of what the database looks like.
I've posted it here in the notebook,
but the diagram is very big, so
I suggest you click this diagram link.
It'll take you to this page here, and
here you can see how all
the tables are linked together.
So, you have four main databases.
You have the customer data, the inventory
data, and then your business and
the views.
So, three main databases, sorry.
And you can see how each
table is connected.
So, you have in your customer data the
cities, the countries, their addresses,
and then you have their customer table.
And how that is linked to some
business data such as your staff,
your store, your payments and
your rentals.
And that's all connected to your
inventory, to your film, and
that's connected to film category
languages, inventory, actors and text.
Category and film text as well.
So, go ahead and check that out.
If you ever need a big overview of
the database that you're working with.
And here it is as well, as an overview.
So, Python comes with SQLite3,
which provides a light weight
disk-based database that doesn't
require a separate server process.
It's useful for
prototyping with SQLite, and
then you can port it to a larger
database system like MySQL.
So, Python also comes with a nice
module to work with SQL and SQLite.
So, the module is called SQLite3.
So, you can either just follow along
with the NB Viewer notebook or
type this out yourself.
I won't be doing any live coding for
this appendix because there's a lot of
stuff to write down and that's a markdown.
So, for all the notebooks that
we're gonna be using for SQL,
there's gonna be two main imports,
import SQLite3 and import pandas as pd.
So, to use this SQLite module,
you first need to create a connection
object that represents a database.
If the database name already exists,
SQLite3 will automatically connect to it.
If that name doesn't exist, SQLite will
automatically create that database.
So, for experienced users, you can also
supply the name, colon memory colon and
that'll create the database completely
in your RAM, or your RAM, yes.
So, we can go ahead and make a connection.
So to connect to the database,
we go ahead and make an object called con,
equals and then to connect,
you say SQLite3.connect, and
then either put the entire path name for
your database, or in this case,
since my database is in the same
folder as my IPython notebooks,
I can just connect to
it using the name .db.
And now I'm gonna show you an example
of running a basic SQL query.
Don't worry,
if you don't understand this quite yet,
we'll go over it in the next video.
But to run a basic SQL query,
in case you already are familiar with SQL,
you can just set an object as a comment.
A large comment using
three quotation marks.
Select, in this case,
all from the customer table.
And then the way to use pandas to read
that SQL query, is by setting your data
frame equal to pd.read_sql, and then you
provide it with the SQL query object, and
then you provide the connection object.
Which we set up here, con_sqlite3.connect.
And then here I'm showing
the resulting data frame.
And that's basically,
since I selected all from the customer
table, that's the entire customer table.
Okay, so, that's it.
You just passed the SQL queries
in pandas and Python, great job.
So, the subsequent lectures will go
further into how to query with SQL.
But if you already know SQL,
that’s basically all you need to know.
Let me just do a quick overview
of what we learned here.
So, we downloaded SQL Alchemy.
You can either go to that link or use
pip install or conda install sqlalchemy.
We also downloaded the SQLite browser.
There's also 10 other free browsers here
on this link in case you want to check
them out.
We downloaded the database.
You can either construct the database
yourself using the .sql file from this
link in case you're
already familiar with SQL.
Or, if you just wanna download
the fully constructed database,
it's less than six megabytes.
You can click this link here.
After that, we've got a quick overview
of what that database looks like.
It's basically a rental
video store's database.
Then we noticed that Python comes
with SQLite3, a nice module.
So you always import SQLite3,
import pandas pd.
Then, we gotta connect to our database.
So, we say con equals sqlite3.connect.
And either your entire
path to your database or
just the database name if it's in
the same folder as your IPython notebook.
And then, we learn how to do
a SQL query using pandas.
So, your SQL query is just a comment.
In this case,
I have selected everything from customer.
Then you can use Pandas to pass that SQL
query using that SQL query object and
passing your connection, and
I've set it as the resulting data frame.
Okay, so that's a quick
introduction to SQL of Python.
Hope you enjoyed it, thanks.